- [Instructor] An Uber Jar is a special build
and packaging routine that has more to do with dependencies
than packaging or build.
So, what is an Uber, or a shaded JAR?
In my mind's eye, an Uber JAR is a WAR file
to run outside of a web container.
Now, while that isn't exactly what it is,
it's a great analogy,
because just like a WAR file,
a shaded JAR contains all of the source code
that you write for your application.
In addition, also like a WAR file,
it contains all the dependencies that you need
to run your application.
Unlike a WAR file, however, it can be executable.
Now, what this means is that you can
actually package your application in a shaded JAR
and hand it to somebody to run,
and they don't have to do anything
to bring the dependencies onto the class path,
and you can even package in a shaded JAR
something like embedded Tomcat to run a web application
as a JAR file.
Before we build our shaded JAR,
I want to run a command to show you
what's included in the standard JAR.
So, let's start by running a mvn clean package.
Now, I want to run another command called jar tf,
and we're going to go to the target directory,
and bring up our learning-maven-presidents JAR.
Now, what you can see is we've actually
output everything that was included in our JAR file,
not only the directory structure, but all of our classes.
And this is going to be really important
as we build our shaded JAR.
So, let's jump into our IDE, and we'll go ahead
and open up the learning-maven-presidents.
And we're going to start actually with our PresidentsService.
So, open up com.frankmoley.lil, PresidentsService
in src main java.
Let's scroll down towards the bottom.
And we're going to add a new method.
It's going to be a public static void method called main.
Pass in a string array of args.
Now, in here we're going to create a PresidentsService,
call it service.
And then we're going to do a service.getPresidents.forEach.
And in there we're going to do a System.out::println.
Now, what this is going to allow us to do
is when we run this main method,
we're going to actually grab the service,
execute the query, and then we're going to printout
all of that content to the terminal,
or whatever we're running this from.
So, let's actually make this a shaded, executable JAR.
So, open up our POM file
in our learning-maven-presidents module.
And I want to add to this a plugin in our build section.
So we're going to drop to the bottom here
and create a new plugin.
And the plugin is going to come from
org.apache.maven.plugins.
And the plugin name is the maven-shade-plugin.
And the version that we are going to use is 3.2.1.
Now, we've got a little bit of configuration
that we need to do to make this thing executable.
So we'll go ahead and start with our configuration,
and we are going to build a transformers section,
and a transformer.
And the transformer that we are going to use
has an implementation that equals
org.apache.maven.plugins.shade.resource.
ManifestResourceTransformer.
Make sure you set that to equal and not hyphen.
And then in here, we're going to set our mainClass,
and this is going to be
com.frankmoley.lil.PresidentsService.
Excellent, let me shrink this down over here
so you can see that full implementation.
And now we need to go in and we need to add an execution
to bind this plugin to.
So now we'll execute an execution,
and it is going to run in the package /phase
and the goal that we want to run on it
is the shade goal.
And that's all that we need to do.
So, let's jump back to our terminal
and we're going to run a mvn clean package, once again.
You'll see here towards the end
that we've actually got some output now
from our shaded plugin,
which is what we would expect.
And I want to show you something else.
We're going to do an ls -la on the target directory itself.
And you'll see that in addition to our JAR file,
that is much larger now,
we also have an original JAR file.
And that original JAR file is the unshaded version.
You can see that the size difference is quite significant,
and that's because of all the extra JARs
that we've now brought into our class path.
So, let's actually take a look at what's in there.
So, if we do our jar tf command on target,
and then learning-maven-presidents,
you will see that we have a significantly larger output
because we have all of our shaded classes now
brought into our project itself.
And just to sort of clean all of this up at the end,
I want to run a java -jar command
on our target directory and our
learning-maven-presidents-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar,
and you will see that it executed that method
and output everything to the console,
which is exactly what we would have expected it to do
based on what we just setup.
And that's how the Shade Plugin works.